README.md, before:

# Data Agent Project

This repo contains an experimental AI agent.  
Development flow:
- Experiment in `/notebooks`
- Move stable code into `/data_agent`
- Add tests under `/tests` (sibling of data_agent)
- Track everything with GitHub
- Execute `main.py` for local development (new: using `make run`, see below)

## Running in Colab
Clone repo inside Colab and install, with the following 
```python
   !git clone https://{github_token}@github.com/DonErnesto/data-agent.git /content/data-agent

   %cd /content/data-agent
   !mkdir tmp
   !pip install data-agent
   !pip install -r requirements-colab.txt
 ```

## Development Workflow

This project comes with a `Makefile` to simplify common tasks.

### Installation

To set up the project with all dependencies:

```bash
make install
```
This will:
- Install dependencies from requirements.txt
- Install the data_agent package in editable (-e) mode

## Running the Project
To run the main entry point:

```bash
make run
```

## Testing
To run the test suite (with cache cleared automatically):

```bash
make test
```

## Cleaning
To remove Python caches and pytest caches:

```bash
make clean
```

## Notes
Always use make install after updating dependencies in requirements.txt.
With editable install (pip install -e .), changes to the source code are immediately reflected without reinstalling.

Commit message:

managed to get git hooks to run

README.md, after:

# Data Agent Project

This repo contains an experimental AI agent.
Development flow:
- Experiment in `/notebooks`
- Move stable code into `/data_agent`
- Add tests under `/tests` (sibling of data_agent)
- Track everything with GitHub
- Execute `main.py` for local development (new: using `make run`, see below)

## Running in Colab
Clone repo inside Colab and install, with the following
```python
   !git clone https://{github_token}@github.com/DonErnesto/data-agent.git /content/data-agent

   %cd /content/data-agent
   !mkdir tmp
   !pip install data-agent
   !pip install -r requirements-colab.txt
 ```

## Development Workflow

This project comes with a `Makefile` to simplify common tasks.

### Installation

To set up the project with all dependencies:

```bash
make install
```
This will:
- Install dependencies from requirements.txt
- Install the data_agent package in editable (-e) mode

NB: on older Python versions (3.10) we run into trouble installing ruamel.
The following is a workaround:
```bash
pip install --no-deps ruamel.yaml
```
## Running the Project
To run the main entry point:

```bash
make run
```

## Testing
To run the test suite (with cache cleared automatically):

```bash
make test
```

## Cleaning
To remove Python caches and pytest caches:

```bash
make clean
```

## Notes
Always use make install after updating dependencies in requirements.txt.
With editable install (pip install -e .), changes to the source code are immediately reflected without reinstalling.

## Quality Checks

#This project uses [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) and GitHub Actions to enforce code quality and tests.
NB: on old mac, not able to make it work due to dependencies.
NB: pip install "ruamel.yaml<0.16" --no-binary ruamel.yaml.clib works....

### Local pre-commit hooks

Install hooks locally:

```bash
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install --hook-type pre-push
